we put ourselves in a toxic mindset
where we think I hate my job so much
right now that I'll take anything but
you cannot settle because it gets you
out of your current mess and then you're
putting yourself into another one I've
had performance reviews it goes
incredibly they're so happy everything's
great not a single mention of pay rise
is brought up how do you actually prep
for that conversation there's so many
other employees why are you worthy of
this particular pay rise you've got to
believe in it you've got to know and set
your value and if you think that you are
worth more then you must ask for it
they're not just assessing you you are
equally assessing them when you're the
only female sat at the table it does
feel overwhelming you're not considered
perhaps sometimes as important or that
you've got anything valuable to add
sometimes they blind to the fact that
they're not considering you as important
how do you overcome that when they don't
realize they're doing it themselves
interviews looking for new roles how do
you kind of approach this I'm going to
give you a really great tip that I
practice everywhere I go can you just be
like a little like speaker in my ear
next
performance hey balancers welcome back
to another episode of the balance Seri
podcast I'm your host Erica and today
we're going to have another conversation
about how you can find an own balance in
your own life in the topic area of work
which is an area that impacts every
single one of our Lives whether you're
an entrepreneur whether you're a
careerist whatever you're doing there's
going to be topics and tips in today's
conversation that can help you whether
you are looking for a new role and
you're curious about interviewing
whether you have struggled having tough
or sometimes awkward conversations about
like pay Rises and promotions whether
you're struggling with prejudices in
your office or workplace today I have
invited a very good friend of mine
Serena on the podcast and the reason I
wanted to have her on is because most of
our dinners the last couple months or
basically since I met you has just been
us bouncing ideas off each other and
basically having these conversations and
I literally thought there's going to be
so many people that have the same
questions I've had for you or that
you've had for me and I thought it would
be really useful for us to just sit here
and chat I'm really inspired by your
career and the the way you've pushed
yourself and I think you the the advice
you've given me has really cemented
quite a few things for me so I just
wanted to have you on to have that chat
and for everyone listening you're going
to feel like you are just sitting in
with your friends asking them questions
to help you you know figure out stuff
with work so Serena welcome to the
welcome to the show thank you thank you
for having me I'm honored um and
actually you've never shared with me
that the advice I've given with like to
you has been cementing your journey so
that's nice to hear well I keep inviting
you out for dinner so that should be
self-exam that's two ways like you've
also given me really sound advice and I
think I think we work well like you
bounce off my energy and I bounce off
yours and it's just been you know I feel
like we were meant to be yeah it it
feels like a like a soul aligned
friendship actually I'm going to share
the story of how we met so I think it
was like 2 weeks into my first job here
in Dubai and I went to like an industry
regulator event and Serena was actually
sitting on the panel discussing like the
conversion of crypto and law virtual
assets it's a booming space here Serena
is also a lawyer by the way and I don't
know if anyone's had this experience
when you're at like an industry event
and you see someone or you feel
someone's energy and you're like I Vibe
them like I just feel drawn or
gravitated to them and that's how I felt
with you I mean I've shared this story
with you you were on stage the talk
ended I walked out and I was like you
know what I'm just going to go introduce
myself to her like I I'm not really a
massive networker well I wasn't at the
time especially not in the legal
regulatory space but I was like stuff it
I'm going to walk in and introduce
myself to her and I think we didn't stop
talking for like 2 hours after that I
met your partner on the day as well and
you know we've just been mates ever
since so for anyone listening when
you're out and about at these things if
you feel drawn to someone just go up to
them because you never know why you're
being pulled in their direction or like
what's gravitating you towards them but
that's my little like tip of the day
like if you feel drawn to someone go up
to them and I'm so glad that you did
because seeing see your faces it's quite
overwhelming as you can imagine and I
had seen you in the crowd but I wasn't
expecting you to come over and speak to
me at all um there was a huge you
remember there were a couple of people
waiting and I think you were the one I
was most excited to meet because I had
the same energy like I got a good vibe
from you good feeling I'm so glad you
did and I think we even missed the next
speech because we were so engrossed in
conversation I think I even stayed with
my my boss said day I think I just
stayed with you and we just ended up
chatting the whole time and then we
worked out that we were like living near
each other and we had the same interests
yeah I'm so glad you did so thank you
for that no worries so that's how we met
guys and we've just been bouncing off
each other ever since um we I think
we're very aligned in terms of not only
our careers but what we want in terms of
our life and so just to start let's
start at the um I think this is a
running theme in a lot of the
conversations we have which is selling
yourself in a professional way and I
think a lot of people struggle with that
confidence of how to put themselves
forward because maybe they don't have
the confidence or they feel like they're
being really egotistical and I think
this is important especially when it
comes to let's say an interview right
you're going forward for a new
opportunity that's most likely if you're
if you're going for something different
it's most likely a step up or something
outside of your comfort zone otherwise
why would you be moving absolutely yeah
so this is something both you and I have
done over the last few years um
interviews looking for new roles how do
you kind of approach this do you know
what as I've gotten older I've seen it
from a different perspective I think
when I was younger it was always this
nerve-wracking it still is
nerve-wracking but it then it was very
much they are assessing me I need this
more than they do and like they're doing
you a favor right exactly exactly and I
had an interesting conversation with an
interviewer once who told me and this is
what changed it for me this is kind of
the the Turning moment that really made
me see it from a different point of view
was that actually I want you to be just
as comfortable as we are so you're
assessing us uh because ultimately we
want you to stay here long term we don't
want you to be here for you know just a
minute and you know leave in a year and
that's when I really sat back and I
thought wow like so interesting and I
think we forget that it's so easy for us
to forget because there's so many
demands in our life right we've got
financial goals we've got personal goals
we've got professional goals you know
all of these different things make us
feel like if it's not this
my life is over and like it's so much on
these OPP everything and I do I do
believe that if a door closes another
one opens and so if it doesn't work out
it honestly wasn't meant to be and
that's okay and I think it's having that
Acceptance in believing that okay you
know I this role is for me I'm the right
fit for this and it it's all about that
mindset and understanding that actually
you're not they're not just assessing
you you are equally assessing them and
it should be seen that way because what
is the point Erica in taking on a role
where you actually aren't really aligned
with their values or their ethics and
the way that they work you know they
might say to you you know Serena well we
need you to work past regular hours you
might be on calls with you know the US
for example they're behind in time that
means you're going to be on calls at
what like 8 9 10 p.m. sometimes if you
know that's not something you can do or
commit to you know it's not the right
role for you you know that this is
outside of my you talk a lot about
balance right this is not going to work
for you work for my balance yeah and so
I think you have to understand and
accept that do you know what maybe this
one isn't for me the money's right the
people look right but actually the work
itself isn't isn't what I'm looking for
I think it's taking that control back
yeah because you often we feel like
we're out of control in those situations
and sometimes we are because you've got
recruiters involved or you've got you
know two or three different parties
involved it's not just HR on their side
but it's taking that control back and
saying you know what if I don't get this
one that's okay there will be something
else and it's easy to say but hard to
practice but entirely possible I think
absolutely I think there's two parts of
this I love that you started off with
the mindset tip because I've been there
so many times where you go into an
interview and you're like am I the right
person for this for them right like I'm
just one of many they're interviewing
but you could equally say Well they're
one of many companies that I'm
interviewing and I'm actually assessing
if this is right for me and being a
little bit more confident in what you
want
and I think that with what it you 
and I think that with what it you want
so I talk about a lot on the I'll link
for anybody listening I did a a talk on
stage at dubbi active where I basically
broke down how to find your unique
balance and that practice for me really
helped me get clear on well what are my
priorities what are my non-negotiables
so what is the life I want and therefore
what job fits into that I think we so
often think that we have to shift Our
Lives D dramatically to fit a job and
you know what sometimes for the right
opportunity if it's aligned if it fits
with where you want to go for sure
there's going to have to be some shifts
but in terms of applying for a role you
do not have to settle and that feeling
of needing to settle cuz you're like oh
I don't know when another job's going to
come up especially if you're looking
while you're already employed comes from
that mindset shift of like I don't need
this I'm assessing to see if it's right
for me I want to share like two three
things that I always ask in interviews
um because I feel like you you the
opportunity if you don't ask them
questions in interviews too right that's
one part of this mindset shift is saying
have questions prepared that you want to
ask them sometimes they answer them
already um so some of mine are is there
working from home flexibility so I would
always want to work for somewhere that
has some sort of working split I don't
want to be in an office 5 days a week I
don't care how good the money is it's
not personally going to work for me the
second one is workload and working hours
so if it's a it's a place where they're
currently really busy and the employees
are stretched and they're bringing in
people to Resource I want to know that I
want to know what I'm walking into I
don't want to be told we have a great
work life balance what does that mean
you know like do people get off at five
I don't mind working overtime but you
know for example in law it's quite easy
to assess if you're going for top tier
firms magic circle that is the
expectation you know what you're walking
into right so don't walk into that
system thinking you're going to change
it but if it's somewhere where you don't
know ask a question you know you you
don't need to I feel I used to be so
fearful asking that question
like to look like I was scared to work
like over and but I simply phrase it as
you know I'm I'm not uh I'll be
available for urgent things where
required but I just want to know what
the expected working hours are you know
and they should tell you that up front
because it's not going to serve them if
absolutely you do you kind of have any
questions that are like stock standard
for you to ask yeah so I often I ask
those that you've just raised but I also
often ask I'm quite go goal oriented and
I think um one of the ones I always ask
is how do you how will I be assessed and
how do you measure that success right
because in law it's so hard we don't
have we don't have kpis like you know
some other Industries do our KP are very
different right and so what do I need to
do to move to the next level and I know
that sounds very preemptive and that you
know I'm actually interviewing for this
role and I'm already talking about the
next step but I think that shows the
interviewer that you're considering long
term you're wanting to grow you're
wanting to you know have development
whether that's Financial whether that's
a job title whether that's learning
something new a training course whatever
that might be I think that really
without directly saying it tells them
that actually do you know what they've
got a longterm plan and their long-term
plan could potentially be here and I'm
glad that you mentioned confidence
because I always say like the best thing
anybody can wear male or female however
you identify is confidence because I
think if you wear confidence that's
enough and one of the things that I also
aren't afraid of is sometimes telling
recruiters or interviewers and I know
you align with this that I'm actually
interviewing for other roles so when do
you expect to let me know or when should
I next expect to hear back from you
because I think that also comes with the
confidence of well you're not the only
the only company that I'm interviewing
with serve up or am out right yeah
absolutely I mean you know they're
interviewing for other people for that
role so I'm also interviewing yeah
absolutely just want to Circle back so
what you said about like bringing up you
know what do I need to do to progress
here if I take this role the Reon that's
also very very important is because when
it comes around to conversation about
performance review then you have
tangible things to lean back on as
opposed to oh you've done a great job
and then we skim over it but I digress
we'll get into promotion Parise in a
minute how about the question I hate
this question personally but I've had to
like navigate how to answer it over the
years tell me about your weaknesses any
tips for answering that one do you know
what I recently Googled this it's so
weird that you bring this up I'm not
joking like two or 3 weeks ago googled
this and and I used to really struggle
with it and I think when I was younger I
gave really questionable answers no but
questionable like I think there were
perhaps two honest in that I'd say that
you know I'm I'm really organized
outside of my life but at work I
struggle with like time management which
is a terrible thing to say example of
what not to say absolutely absolutely um
and so I interestingly enough googled
this recently and there was some really
interesting things that came back one of
the ones that I saw was that actually
and I think I align with this is that
I'm a little bit of a control freak and
I'm okay to say that openly like
sometimes you just want things to be
done correctly the first time and when
you're delegating you know that you've
got to put an added step into that
process because you've then got to
double check sometimes what's been
produced right and so I struggle with
delegation sometimes and I don't think
that's necessarily a bad thing it just
means I want things done correctly the
first time um I get that that's also a
very bold thing to ask for
um sometimes from Juniors and I I
believe in growth and development you
know always helping others always you
know supporting but sometimes you don't
have the time for it especially in our
industry right like we've got tight dead
deadlines we need to turn things around
quickly so sometimes I struggle with
delegation um but I think it's always
important to put a positive spin on it
and you'd say ex experience happened and
now I've realized that it's actually
better to delegate and add in or factor
in the extra time that's needed for that
review you I think it's you got to put a
positive spin on any weakness that
you're putting out there yeah I actually
always say
delegation said that yeah I 
delegation said that yeah I always say
that cuz I'm like it's like a a positive
and a negative and definitely always
back it with an example I think the more
examples you can give the better before
we move on to like pay Rises and
promotions in terms of like you doing a
bit of DD on the company or like in
terms of just prepping for an interview
are there any stock standard things you
do for anyone listening who's got some
interviews in the pipeline or thinking
of getting back on the seen they could
maybe just some like practical things
they can start to think about yeah I
think DD is so important because not
only does it set you up for the
interview because I and I'm glad you
raised this because I love companies
that talk about um you know gender pay
gaps and how they do their flexible
working and you know some websites and
some companies really advocate for it
and they post about it on their LinkedIn
you can see their values right and some
will never mention it and I think it
just speaks volumes about those those
companies and you can probably set apart
the ones that you're really keen on
versus the ones that are maybe in like
your maybe pot do you know what I mean
and so um DD is so important and I think
if you're going into an interview
without having done any DD you really
don't know what you're getting yourself
into and I just think that's a really
poor place to position yourself yeah so
it goes beyond just Googling the website
but then also I'm I'm like I'll stalk
with people on LinkedIn you know because
it's Neary absolutely not and they can
see that I've seen their profile and I
take pride in that because I took time
out to learn about you and there's been
times in interviews where I've seen
somebody do something on LinkedIn and I
I'll mention it I'll say well actually I
I did have a look at your LinkedIn
profile and I saw that you did this
that's incredible like you know and it's
nice to show that you've paid attention
and understood also what that individual
is doing within the business as opposed
to just the company itself and I think
that adds a really personable touch um
when when you are interviewing and I
think that also differentiates you from
people who do just Google the website
right because you've G the right bare
minimum so yeah it's really important
and in the UK we have this specific
website where you can people will give
experiences and like reviews as to the
company that yes yeah I'm was sure if I
can mention it on here yeah why not
we've got it in ours as well okay cool
uh and I swear by it like absolutely
love it because it's real it's raw it's
Unapologetic right it's people who and I
just grant all employ
probably it's actually pretty good um
and it's so useful to see cuz there's
like little boxes that talk about work
life balance and pay and you know all
the it kind of categorizes different
things and it's really useful to get
people who work there currently or
previously their feedback and I think
you do have to take it with a pinch of
salt because there probably are some
disgruntled employees on there but most
of the feedback on there seems to be
very real very genuine um so yeah yeah
it's just like another good like check
checkpoint
yeah absolutely so I do go I think quite
Far and Beyond sometimes um YouTube you
know sometimes they'll be doing
something on YouTube or they've been to
an like an event or Global event and you
know they've got like an interview with
the CEO and CEO speaking about something
that they're focusing on or their recent
project and I think all of that is so
important and I think I've never been
that person that never does the DD but
that might be the lawyer of me talking
well I think like you know you have to
expect that you're not the only person
that they're inter for the and at the
end of the day for me it's always like
what's one simple thing I can do that
stands out you know if the company is or
the interviewer is talking a lot about
you know people's character and their
personalities I'll bring up the podcast
because that distinguishes me from
everyone else I always say what you do
in your spare time that's your
distinguishing factor with to let's say
all the other lawyers you work with
right all they're doing the same thing
but what makes you each different and
why is that important but if it's
something different like that you want
to stand out and know something about
them or raise an interesting ask an
interesting question I I I wish I
remember the question I asked but I
remember asking something they were like
oh we've we've actually not thought
about that like we we haven't you know
and I was like although they're going to
remember me now for that um but yeah I
think you know all good things for
someone that's listening things to think
about that you could ask things you can
do to prep and just mindset shifts you
can have in terms of you know they're
not the only company and you don't need
to stress out about not getting this
role because if it's not right for you
it's not right and do not settle
especially if you do not have to do
because it will not last and it's your
life and I think the other thing I just
want to add to this because I know
there's other talking points you want to
cover but I think also we put ourselves
in a toxic mindset where we think I hate
my job so much right now that I'll take
anything and that's just and it's so
easy to fall into that right because
we've all been there I've been there
you've been there I know that personally
but you cannot settle because it gets
you out of your current mess and then
you're putting yourself into another one
that's great advice that is not the
answer m sometimes you've just got to
grit your teeth push through and wait
for the right opportunity to come along
it sounds so cliche hearing myself say
out loud but it's so true because it is
just going to be a toxic mess and then
the next one's going to be a mess and
then everything becomes shortterm and
then it's how do I justify such a short
period on my CV and you know then it
becomes just a different conversation so
yeah I think it's it's not recommended
do not settle I agree with you entirely
yeah and like just before we move on
like I think when you're in that space
where you're like I don't like my job I
will take anything like when you're in
that head space we've all been there you
are so clouded and distracted from what
you actually want that just by picking
up and putting yourself in a different
environment without considering whether
that's aligned or right for you you're
going back to square one as though you
just started the job that you were
currently in so you're not doing
yourself any s you know any favors
you're better off just shifting your you
know current approach to your current
role in terms of what it's serving you
and where it's brought you and then take
the time to really find an aligned
opportunity when you're not in a rush
it's the best time to look because you
know you don't have to be in that
desperate energy even if you don't like
your role you know it could take months
it could take up to a year but you just
got to trust that like the right thing's
coming trust the process absolutely
let's talk about pay Rises um and
promotions yeah my favorite thing to
cover yeah because I mean you know
people think the conversation of balance
is just about you know how to you create
balance in your life but I really look
at it in terms of every vertical of our
life has an element of balance and we
can't ignore the role that salary has to
play in our in our lives in terms of
what we can do how much disposable
income we have how that fares with our
fulfillment in our job and so navigating
the conversation around pay Rises is
really important one we are never taught
one we is laced with our own limit
limiting beliefs around money and what
we're worth and then also this I guess
Power Play Between the organization and
an employee we're talking about like
people who are building careers
specifically I've been in a lot of
situations where I've had performance
reviews you know up to the yearly mark
it goes incredibly they're so happy
everything's great not a single mention
of pay rise is brought up right yeah
I've been there and you're waiting and
you're waiting and it doesn't come up
and then it's the end of the meeting so
how would you go about bringing up the
conversation of pay and then we can
navigate negotiate negotiating after
that so you know you've got to be
confident enough to raise it yourself
that's the truth ultimately the employer
may not want to discuss it they may not
even have it in mind and I think it's
also okay to say you know on my next
performance review I'd like to discuss
the potential of looking at my salary
and increasing it and I think when you
say it you look you make eye contact you
say it with confidence and you don't M
you maintain that eye contact because
you believe it you've got to believe
prce it in absolutely yeah yeah yeah
practice it in the mirror and say it to
yourself and you know it's it is a
really nerve-wracking thing to do
because there's so many other employees
why are you worthy of this particular
pay RIS like what sets you apart from
everybody else who's working just as
hard as you are perhaps if not more you
know you don't know what everybody's
working on in terms of projects you've
got to believe in it you've got to know
and set your value and if you think that
you are worth more then you must ask for
it that's the truth we have to
distinguish between like oh I'm just you
for a PIR Rise Like It's Time versus I
actually deserve it right so how do you
prep for that conversation do you kind
of look at the work you've done how do
you actually assess your value before
you go in because that's really the key
piece here to being confident in that
conversation if you just say it because
you think oh I'm about about time due
for a pay rise and it's a bit more
difficult to assert yourself and then
back it so how do you actually prep for
that conversation yeah so I do this like
a year ahead I'm going to be honest this
is why you're on the show today
please tell me more I might join a role
and I'm already thinking about like a
year from now where do I want to be and
I know that's a it's a lot because when
you start a new role there's all these
other things you've got to take into
consideration right but uh for me I'm
thinking right what do I need to start
writing down and taking note of to have
this conversation come next year so I'm
going to give you a really great tip
that I I practice everywhere I go uh one
of the things I do is whenever there's a
project or a piece of work I'll complete
that piece of work at some point right
and I will then email my stakeholder and
I'll
say sometimes I do it immediately after
if it's it's a larger organization if
it's a smaller one I'll wait till the
end of the year and I'll say it's coming
up to my performance review I really
like to get some of your feedback on how
you felt our conversation went how work
was you know the advice that I provided
you with the completion of the project
was it on time Etc and if I know that it
went well I know that feedback is going
to be positive right and so you take
that feedback and you file it away and
you put it to the side and so you have
hard evidence to take in your
performance review building your your
case I love it right you build a case
proper lawyer proper lawyer talk I love
it and I do it with multiple
stakeholders different projects and it
will come around to performance review
and I've got evidence to put on the
table and say look do you just whip out
like a stack of filing cabinet passage
the child lady and said you go I mean
probably that conversation probably
happen with your boss before it happens
with HR right and so and it wouldn't be
a stack it's probably like five or six
stack of feedback but I think it's so
important to show them something right
physical like this is real feedback I've
not coerced this this is not been you
know taken under pressure and you you
produce it and you say look this is what
I've done this year these are the
projects I completed and you do have a
separate list of all the things that you
you did and then you also have a
separate list of all the extra things
that you did outside of your role or
things that weren't expected of you but
you did anyway cuz often we do that in
our legal industry and I'm sure it
happens elsewhere and then you've got a
list of all the things that you did your
goals timelines of those things and you
know you've you've got a call you know
the core part of your role then you've
got an additional list of the extra
things that you did in addition to your
role and then on on the third thing
you've got is all your stakeholders
saying how amazing you are and how great
it was to work with you how can how can
they say no so then do you approach that
conversation in terms of you give them a
figure cuz this is like real practical
stuff that I don't think a lot of people
speak about like how do you like to
approach it do you like to give them
that kind of evidence and talk through
the performance get their feedback and
then leave it with them yeah or do you
like to ask for a number so we were
talking about knowing your value and
sometimes you know what that number is
and sometimes you don't and also I think
people are terrified of having a figure
in mind not only because they might
undersell themselves but also might be
asking for too much and I think that's
okay I think that's normal um so I often
don't go in with a number because of
those reasons and I'm okay with that I
think I'm comfortable with it because my
intention is to have them provide a
number first and then you negotiate
yeah um and we were talking about
knowing your value and you said how do
you sort of you know show them your
value that is that all those lists and
the documentation that youve provid or
feedback that's you saying look this is
my value here people like to work with
me I meet my targets and timelines and
deadlines let's discuss salary and it
can be a really it doesn't have to be
confrontational this is the other thing
right it can be really warm conversation
like in my experience it's always been
look performance review I'd really like
to discuss salary would like to see an
increase this year is there any way we
can make this possible like let's have a
discussion I'd like to have a
transparent discussion are you open to
that and I think if you open it like
that they will that no one's going to
say I can't say no one's going to say no
but they more it's probably more likely
to be well received if you open it like
that rather than here's all the work I
did now give me five grand more yeah
right sure so you preface the review
that you want to touch on salary yes
yeah and then you'll kind of gauge their
their feedback and they'll say something
like I need to discuss with HR Etc and I
think that's your moment to sell and you
just say look I really love working here
really enjoy working with the team
you're an amazing boss but I really feel
like it's Justified for me to ask for an
increase this year on the basis of what
I've produced today MH and I think it's
okay to be you just word it so well like
can you just be like a little like
speaker in my ear next performance with
no but it's like good it's really good
like the reason I love asking you these
questions is cuz when you say it I'm
like now I have it on record and I can
come back and listen to this listening
now has like just little on liners that
help them assert themselves or segue
into what can often be a bit of an
awkward thing to bring up if you're the
one initiating it yeah and I think the
language you use you're right is so
important it's because it also sets the
tone of that conversation absolutely and
setting the tone right from the from the
beginning is is key because then you're
not going to have a negotiation if
you're saying give me five grand or I
leave like why would you yeah threading
well worst case what not to do yeah no
and Body Language it is so important to
be comfortable to to make eye contact to
say it to smile whilst you're having the
conversation not
sarcastically um but yeah just to be
genuine and I think if you believe that
you are worthy of an increase in salary
or a promotion your body will will
reflect that and the conversation will
reflect that right it's not forced if
you know you haven't put the work in
this year don't ask for the increase
yeah because makes sense it's not going
to happen right for so many reasons but
your body language is one of them yeah
it's you're going to show that it's not
you you don't believe that you're worthy
of one yeah absolutely before we move on
I just want to say like the actual
practice of just keeping track of the
things you've done I think is really
important for two things one I mean
obviously what you've already shared in
terms of tracking and then getting
stakeholder feedback but you know when
it comes to like redoing your resume and
you're like what the hell have I even
worked on what are the matters if you're
actually keeping tabs of that as you go
like almost a practice of just building
out your resume even if you're not even
thinking about leaving your job right
just in terms of upkeeping what you've
worked on and building out that profile
it makes it so much easier for you to
Showcase like the things you've worked
on and resume is not only important for
when you're going for a new role
sometimes you the organization uses your
resume to pitch for certain things right
so upkeeping that as a regular practice
is great not only for stakeholder
feedback but for resume and number two
it helps you keep yourself accountable
if you've gone six months and had
nothing to on your resume then maybe
it's time to throw yourself into some
projects cuz you know that if that
conversation is coming around the corner
and you want more money there
notification for exactly so I think
that's a really really good practical
tip for anyone listening to just keep
themselves accountable and I just want
to talk about practical tips because
people often say oh what if I meant to
make a list that's literally it you go
onto Microsoft One Note or whatever
you're using and what I do is as I'm
working on projects I'll have a list and
I call that my to-do list on one note
that gives you a little option to tick
the box once it's done
I tick the box and then that list I move
into completed it's literally it doesn't
have to be a convoluted you know process
spreadsheet of excel no it's like a
basic spread uh sorry a basic checklist
and it's so easy to manage when you're
doing the project you can have that list
absolutely as your to-do list and it
then becomes your completed list
absolutely or even just have your word
doc resume as a working file on your
desktop and just add to it like however
works I guess for anyone listening but
that practice is something I only really
thought of in the last year and I think
would have been amazing to have just
like regular tabs as I went because I'm
sure there's heaps of like really key
projects and tasks I've done that I've
just forgotten about and it helps you
refresh when it comes to like interviews
performance reviews all of that so
definitely definitely worth doing I put
out to the audience before our
conversation today the types of things
we're going to be talking about and I
asked them if there was anything
specific um that they wanted us to chat
about and I had a few people asked me
about this and it was how to deal with
prejudices and biases in the workplace
and I think women come across this on
the gender side more often than not I
have to personally say and I feel
grateful to say I've not myself come
across it I know that you have come up
with this in a difficult way in your
workplace and so for people listening
who feel like they are blocked by such
prejudices in their roles in their
progression do you have kind of any
words of advice for them cuz it can be
quite a
sticky landlocked feeling it's yeah no
it's tough and I think especially in our
industry right like it's sad that we're
talking about this in 2024 because it's
2024 right like we shouldn't be but it
exists it's real and I think it's okay
to say that it's happened but also
managing it is the most important thing
so for me I've had I've had both
actually I've had racial and and um I
think gender sort of differences I think
in our industry it's still quite male
dominated there are definitely more
women now doing sort of partnership or
leadership roles um but I've been in
workplaces where I'm the only female sat
at the table cuz you're often in
management positions as well yeah and so
when you're the only female set at the
table it does feel overwhelming and so
sometimes and I'm sorry that I'm
targeting this towards the male audience
but there is a lot of testosterone in
that room and you know you're not
considered perhaps sometimes as
important or that you've got anything
valuable to add and sometimes I don't
know that they're doing it sometimes I
think that it's just the norm and it's
their practiced way that sometimes
they're blind to the fact that they're
not they're not considering you as
important or like it's more subconscious
right right and how do you overcome that
when they don't realize they're doing it
themselves right and so I think age is
also another one sometimes so I've been
in a workplace where there's older gents
basically sat around the table and then
there's me and you know I might look
like I've got lesser experience or that
you know she looks a little bit young to
be at this you know to have earned her
seat at this table that's not
necessarily the case right and I think
experiences bring you to where you are
today and I think whatever experience
you've had and if you are in a position
where you're in a senior position or
even if you're not in a Senor position
right you could be at any point in your
career and there's sort of an issue
around around sexual um sort of
differences I think you as a female have
to and this goes back to confidence be
confident that you have earned your seat
at that table you are worthy of sitting
at that table irrespective of what
anybody else believes or says and I
think you really have to believe it and
it's hard because going in and trying to
fight a conversation and you know trying
to get your word in and trying to share
your view and then it it's de sometimes
it's dismissed it's hard it's hard to
receive and also you feel like well they
can't see my value and if they can't see
your value it's not that it's okay but
sometimes you have to accept that that
is the way that this place
operates and if you're not comfortable
there then you have to move yeah and
it's like that Jim Ron saying right like
if you don't like where you're at then
move you're not a tree I think is what
he says like that's true if you're not
comfortable in your surroundings and you
know that you're not accepted as well as
you wish you would be then you have to
change your surroundings you can sit
there and go home and you know cry to
your your partner about it every other
day and not change your situation but
ultimately if you're not being valued as
a person as a person there then you you
need to change your environment and if
we run with like the tree analogy it's
kind of like you are not going to grow
in that environment because you're being
caged in boxing whereas if you plant
that elsewhere with a more fertile
environment then that's better off for
you
and this convers isting really highly
with a chat I had a couple weeks ago
with an incred woman who name is Tracy
ham I had her on the podcast um for
anyone that is really feeling this
conversation I highly recommend
listening to our conversation but she
basically said something very very
similar we we put so much emphasis
sometimes on in the workplace right
there's this focus on we need a female
on a team or we need a female in
leadership right rather than who is the
most eligible person for this role so
when you flip that it's not to say that
these prejudices don't exist right I
haven't experienced it but I know for a
fact that a lot of people around me have
so I think we'd be ignorant to say that
it doesn't exist but there's a power in
bringing it back to yourself and what
you can actually control which are your
skills and your genuine eligibility for
a role which no one can take away from
you and other people can sit there and
contest and focus on the gender side of
things and not take you seriously for
your gender but if you are genuinely the
most eligible person for the role and
you're in the right environment that's
going to support that you're going to be
in that role it and you know a big part
of that is you believing it as well and
backing yourself accep yeah I think it's
like that question of if you can't
change like don't try and change a
system that's it's really rigid and like
locked in like just move if you're not I
mean not that you should tolerate it
anywhere but sometimes people are very
fixed in their ways and um it's harder
for you to fight that fight than to just
focus on what's actually true to which
is your skills yeah yeah definitely and
I don't think it's just in the legal
industry right like I think cyber
security women in Tech you think
probably across the board it's SP in
probably any industry yeah and you've
just got wom in business yeah definitely
definitely and I I definitely I'm a
girls girl like I Champion women I am
always the person that's going to hand
down the ladder to have somebody else
come up with me right like I think it's
important for us as women to champion
each other and Empower each other as
well MH when you know there's a divide
in your workplace and you see that
divide happening sometimes it's
necessary to step in and like you know
not necessarily step into a conversation
but sometimes you give that girl or that
woman you know a little bit of advice on
the side and say don't worry about it
it's fine like yeah if you see it
happening don't be ignorant to it yeah
because sometimes a female needs that
sometime is this me am I imagining this
is it cuz we also question ourselves I
think we feel like well am I making this
up or is it just something that you know
is actually real and happening so
sometimes it's nice to hear it from
somebody that you know I did see that
but boss it you got this yeah you know
sometimes you need those words of
encouragement yeah love it speaking of
any parting words of wisdom for our
listeners um you know maybe on the
promotion side Parise side selling
yourself side anything we've spoken
about today is there anything you want
to leave on the table before we wrap up
our chat today yeah it's really I just
want to just discuss mindset growth real
quick because I think all of this is
about mind set growth and believing that
the skills that you have are changeable
you can learn new skills you can adapt
and it's important to accept feedback
you need to accept that there's going to
be challenges in your
journey you've got to also Embrace
mistakes because we all make them I make
them you make them also just clapping
for other people because somebody else's
success doesn't take away your own 100%
right and I think that's so important
and it keeps you positive it keeps you
driven it keeps you enlightened it keeps
you kind of wanting more um and then the
other thing I just say is be kind to
yourself be so kind to yourself because
so often we have negative speak to
ourselves and then we hear other people
talk badly about other people you've got
to be kind to yourself and if you don't
reach your goal in the next year cool
give yourself another six months give
yourself another year life happens and I
think think it's so important to just be
kind to yourself especially mhm
absolutely well they're all beautiful
words and um I'm very grateful for your
time today I'm really glad that we took
what's often you know a chat over some
dumplings and noodles to the studio and
and actually put together something for
people to listen to I'm sure it's a
conversation I'm going to come back to
time and time again if you're not
available um but I think you know you
always give me such nice comforting
words and so I know a lot of the listen
listeners would have gotten a lot out of
today's chat so thanks for coming on and
hope you had fun did thank you for
having me and I value our friendship and
I'm really grateful to being here today
and hopefully there's something somebody
can take back I'm sure more than one
more than one or two for sure thank you
so much thank you Erica